=0.9.5, Ext JS 2.2.1 support, 11-jul-2009=

  * Ext JS 2.2.1 support
  * Pascal enumerated types support, see ExtFixes.txt for more informations
  * PowerPC and Big-endian architectures support
  * CacheFly option
  * New helper functions SetMargins and SetPaddings
  * Ext.ux.form.LovCombo support
  * Ext.ux.grid.RecordForm support
  * New SetIconCls method
  * New properties: ImagePath, ExtBuild and Browser 
  * Improved TRegexp recognition
  * Blocksocket fixes
  * D2009 support
  * New USESPUBLISHED symbol define
  * Fixes for IIS
  * Configuration and reconfigurantion process based on .INI file
  * BeautifyJS/CSS functions for JavaScript debugging
  * Embedded WebServer compiling fixed
  * Embedded WebServer support for Linux (experimental)
  * Fixed Issue 8 "weird behavior of tab demo"
  * Fixed Issue 14 "Ajax param can't be filled by many values which come from single control object"
  * New parser to Ext JS 3

=0.9.4, CodePress, 28-nov-2008=

  * New CodePress widget with Object Pascal syntax highlighting

=0.9.3, Bug fix release, 21-nov-2008=

  * Fixed double free.

=0.9.2, Beta 5 release, 13-nov-2008=

  * CHM and HTML help using Doc-O-Matic.
  * Embedded WebServer option for Windows using Indy 10 by Vagner.
  * Delphi Style event handlers by Vagner.
  * Services support for Windows Vista by Patricio.
  * Conversion from ISO-8859-1 to UTF8 upon Windows.
  * On Linux sources should be UTF8.
  * Fix for Response issue pointed by Rovi.
  * Fixes for CGIGateway (loading forever issue) and BlockSocket on Linux/MacOS by Bee.
  * New TApplication.Icon property.
  * New TExtObject.JSExpression method.
  * New TExtObject.Delete method.
  * Updated TExtObject.Free method.
  * New TFCGIThread.QueryAs methods.
  * New TFCGIThread.BeforeThreadDestruction method.
  * Removed some Ajax restrictions.
  * Chars "_" and "|" are not used internally anymore.
  * TExtThread.Language is a writeable property now.
  * New ExtFixes classes and properties.
  * A bunch of fixes and optimizations on Windows and Linux/MacOS platforms.
  * Extensive tests (performance, memory use and reliability) upon Windows and Linux by Eneas.
  * New performance Notes by Eneas.
  * New SimplifiedFlow graph by Rovi